Context: I'm riding the #1 bus to Harvard Square, in search of the book "Days of Destruction, Days of Revolt" By Hedges and Sacco. The bus stops somewhere in cambridge, and several cambridge police officers pull a man off the bus, for no apparent reason. As the bus starts moving again, an old man with a long unkempt beard and a friendly smile sits down next to me. He has the look of someone who lives on the street.

Him: Did you see those impersonators coming off the bus before?
Me: What?
Him: Those impersonators, pretending they were men in uniform
Me: Oh! the cops! Yes, I saw them. Do you know what that was about?
Him: No, they were just taking him off, he was wearing short pants. Stupid people wear short pants.
(I am wearing shorts but I make no comment at this)
Me: oh, haha, yeah
Him: People in short pants are always the same, police, fireman, it's all the same. By the time we make it to harvard I could give you my whole thesis on that
Me: Oh yeah, what's that?
Him: Oh, I don't know, because I don't have any memory.
Me: Oh, yeah
Him: So what brings you out to harvard?
Me: I'm headed to a comic book store, looking for "Days of Destruction, Days of Revolt". It's about the economic situation in america, poverty, how certain people are privileged and how others are kept down et cetera.
Him: Ahh! yes, a comic book. So if I read that comic book, how is it gonna affect my mind, how it is gonna change my thought processes, how is it gonna alter how I see things?
Me: Well, I mean, you'll see the images and use your consciousness to think about it, hopefully you'll be able to develop from that something of the social perspective they're trying to offer... but as to the specifics of that social message, I can't really tell you because I haven't read it yet! Gotta find it!
Him: So, I'm thinking about turning this conversation into a comic book, right? how would I do that? Cause we're all in the matrix, you know, I wanna turn this into something where I can just bump you with my samsung *he bumps his shoulder into mine* and get the message you want to give to me
Me: Well, I would hope that most human interactions, even among strangers on the bus like you and I, aren't able to be turned into that kind of abstract, sort of digitized .. er.. package, right? Humans interact as humans, as people, not like machines

He then proceeded to say in the tone of someone explaining something routine, something they've explained a million times before, something that both of us should understand implicitly and share a common understanding of: 
Him: Ahhh well, you say that, because you're part of the 99%. See, I'm the 1%, from the physics department *he gestures behind him, in the general direction of MIT* and I can think. I can think, because I have the particle. They wanna look at my particle, study me, but then, you know, I will *he bumps me again* just make people knights of the round table, then head to buckinham palace, there will be another civil war, then in syria there will be another university, you know, because I have the particle
Me: Hmm, I don't think it's gonna happen exactly like that
Him: Oh, I'm sure it will. It will happen exactly that way.

At this point the bus has reached harvard

Me: Okay, well, it was nice talking to you. Hope you have a great day!
Him: Okay, thanks, you too 
