A Modern Materialist Analysis of Social Media

Abstract:

The Internet is haunted by a specter, an unnamable beast, once called "freedom", another time "chaos", recently called "Communism", now laid bare in a panoptical spectacle with no director. This is the specter known now (in at the northeast, 'round here, I reckon), as Anarchism.

When the economically, and socially "modern" thoughtful American, equipped with smartphone, tablet, laptop, and (luck prevailing, desktop) sits down to write her screeds against the global disaster we can all clearly see unfolding, she has before her a veritable "garden of earthly delights" from which to choose, in the tripartite triad of facebook, tumblr, and twitter. Selecting carefully, she weaves her story to be submitted to feministing, or is it jezebel? I've seen some of us on suicide girls, sincerely blogging intelligent analysis that no one but a close few friends and clients will see. 

"So it goes", said the Vonnegut lover, with the tattoo of the sphincter on her wrist.

"Who is John Galt", I said once, in a mocking hatred of the shrugging globe from whence it came.

The "ghost in the shell", the zeitgeist, can never be named, the spectacle continues unabated, but we can end those dreams that give us pause by naming, and in opposing, end them. 

The material channels through which information flows in the modern mass media are ill defined, relying on a semi-mystical awareness of there being "the Internet", or perhaps, "the Web". The more "in-tune" are aware of "memes" but perhaps do not get the point... fans of Orwell, creating little IngSoc-es and their own private "Newspeak"s. 

An analysis can be performed of the existing radio, fiber, and co-axial networks that deliver TV and Radio news, correlating the delivery of different news stories with events that occur. This is standard practice in comparative media studies of any kind. In general, though, this practice is not as often extended to a direct materialist philosophical analysis of the technology underpinning the communications themselves -- that is, deeply how the limitations of the broadcast channel itself cuts off frequencies of sound or light, or imposes literal grids, or rasters, on the display. Examples of such deconstructions can be found in the critical theorists, but the average American has no access to the works of Zizek, to put it lightly.

A modern materialist analysis of social media must rely on a direct dissection of the technologies that spin the web. As this dazzling soup of independent media outlets sprays unfiltered, uncited content wantonly into the media sea, it is only through direct comparison of the functionality of the different "sharing" functionality (the various 'tweets', 'retweets', 'plus one's and 'facebook posts') that a modern material understanding of social media can be formed. What proceeds is a direct analysis of the technological underpinnings of the web, their historical roots,  the motivations of the various standards bodies that create these technologies, and its social implications as the  modern media drama unfolds.

1. To be continued.
