"What is your favorite metal band? Er um... Genre or movement or wave or whatever" I asked. I never was the kind of person that keeps up with 'the scene', with New Music as it came out, and this kind of conversation always left me feeling somehow drained of blood. She flicked the ash from her cigarette and leaned closer to the brick wall of the venue, watching the snowflakes drift through the flickering light of the guttering streetlamps.

"Black Metal for sure". The other was clearly cold and trying to ignore it. The kind of warmth where I'd've sipped from a flask, in the past. "Inquisition, Darkened Nocturne Slaughtercult..." The thread of conversation led inevitably to horrifying imagery.

"What's always struck me," I said, feeling my brass knuckles pendent wobbling, a "Galileo's Pendulum" caught in the tension between my body and gravity, "Is how, ya know, um, American conceptions of spirituality are um, generally driven by the Christian Mythological landscape, you know, so, you get people talking about Jesus and Mary... It's interesting to see how Scandinavian metal is all, ya know, Satan Satan Satan, the land of the Midnight Sun bringing forth it's own interpretation of the Lightbringer..." I took a drag, deeply aware of my estrogen pills in my fanny pack, and that I hadn't shaved.

"Uhm... yeah, I mean, it's largely spiritual music for me. At least, that's how I access it"

Moments like this, I can't help but think of him. William would gesture derisively and speak with his British/East TN polyglot derisively about "Iced Earth" and their Civil War concept album, "The Glorious Burden". John Brown's Body, then The Battle Hymn of the Republic, and finally, the IWW version, Solidarity Forever, race through my brain as I steady myself. I glance at my phone, my music collection... Did I delete Noenum? I guess I did. I kept "Cynic" though. I steady myself with a private chuckle, and re-enter the world with a word.

"Fascism! White supremacy... Uh. There's an interesting trans-atlantic interchange, you know? The stories of a people learning to be okay with each other manifest here in horrifying ways"

"uh.. huh"

"You know?? Um. Nazi Punks Fuck Off, Skinheads Against Racial Prejudice, that's the kind of SHARP I'm trying to be!," I smile with cleverness, feeling the hair on my face and wishing it were gone

"Well, I don't know. I just like music."

I'm babbling, I guess.

I'm consuming my body with self-hatred when another joins.

"Yeah, you like black metal?" he says. I'm not sure if it's me he's talking to me. "Black Metal is magic, like poetry, like the zeigeist flowing through you"

We make eye contact with him, first her, then me.

"Um... I'm a (witch|practioner) sooo" we jumble our words together. Share a moment of laughter.

"Uh yeah I do that too". I notice his Wu-Tang tee shirt and his... HORSE EBOOKS PENDANT??
